So now we are going to start doing some more operation with our chatbot that we have got over here.
So the first thing is I'm going to be performing a series of operation in here.
Right.
So we have to say like uh, hi, uh, chatbot, uh, how are you doing?
So for instance, if a user is going to ask this question and if you're going to send a message over
here, then you need to see a user message.
And then you also need to get the response from the AI chatbot.
And you need to see that particular message as well.
And all these information needs to be stored in a, in a session, like a historical session, so that
you can keep chatting with each other like you and chatbot can, uh, chat with each other so that you
get the response that you're looking for.
Right.
So we already have those kind of operation in our earlier section of the course while we were doing
the, uh, the runnable, uh, with message history where we store all the historical information.
But but again, in order for us to make use of that with a chatbot, it is going to be a bit tricky.
So we have to do quite a lot of code change over here as well.
So let's see all of these one by one in this particular uh section.
So the first lecture, the first thing that we are going to be doing in this particular lecture is I'm
going to say, okay, if there is a prompt message coming up right, then just give a response now because
you got a prompt message.
Let's first get the historical message and the chat information.
So I'm going to get this history um dot invoke I'm going to call this particular method.
And again this is the same thing that we did in our last section as well.
So I'm going to probably copy this uh c dot c dot invoke over here I'm going to pass the prompt.
Uh like what is the distance between the sun and moon.
But we don't want to pass the hard coded value because we're going to get the prompt message from the
chat input that we are passing in.
So I'm going to say prompt over here.
And then the config is going to remain exactly the same.
So config is equal to configurable of session id as session id.
So at the moment I'm hardcoding the session id as well.
But we are going to get the session ID eventually from the user during the runtime.
Right.
So that is the first thing that we have to do.
And now I need to store this this information in the, in the street, which is the Streamlit as well,
because that is where the session is maintained.
So that you can see that in the UI.
So how do I do that?
There is a session state in the street or Streamlit where you can store all the session state in one
of the array, and I'm just going to call that as the chat history.
Right.
And this chat history is one of the history that I am maintaining to store all my chat information.
So because I have created this chat history over here, I also need to initialize this particular chat
history somewhere.
So how do I actually do that?
I can probably just say st dot session state dot chat underscore history is equal to an empty array.
Right.
So this is the initialization that I'm going to be doing so that I can now start using this particular
array to append with the value that I'm looking for.
So basically what I'm going to be appending this time is I'm going to append the um two keys in here.
The first one is the role where I'm going to say the role is going to be user, and I'm going to pass
the content, which is going to be the prompt message, which I'm going to be passing in as a user.
So essentially this is the first session history that you are going to be appending because you as a
user are going to ask a question in here like, hi, how are you doing?
So now this is a user prompt, right?
This is a user question that you need to add in the history, so that the first thing that is going
to appear on this particular UI is going to be the user.
So the role in here is user.
The content is going to be the prompt that you as a user is going to ask.
And then we need to have another start session state dot uh probably chat history.
Uh dot append over here I'm going to be appending the uh, probably the role as assistant or AI or whatever
that you want to use.
So I'm going to say the role as assistant, because this is going to come all the way from the, uh,
from the AI.
Right.
So that's going to be another array.
And we also need to pass the content there.
So what is the content really which is going to be this particular response.
Right.
This is the content that I need to print over here.
So I'm going to say content oops.
Which is going to be the response that I'm going to be getting out from the large language model that
we are getting in from here.
Right.
So that is what I'm going to be printing over here.
So now that we have did some code change, uh, save this code over here and let's try to run this and
see what's going to happen.
And looks like we have did something wrong.
Oh, we did not close the array.
Sorry about that.
Um, let me run it again.
And you should see the same usual UI.
I'm going to say hi, how are you doing?
And if I hit enter, you will notice that we are really not seeing anything at the moment.
The reason why is because we have to show this, this message, which is going to be coming up from
our, uh, from our prompt as well as our response in the Streamlit app.
Right.
We have only stored these messages in the Streamlit session history, but we have not really printed
that value in the Streamlit in the UI.
Like how we do that, like Street Dot, right.
Probably where you can just say, uh, probably prompt, uh, which is the user is going to ask and
then once this is uh, getting the response, then you can just say Dot, right.
And you're going to say maybe response something like that, but it's going to be very ugly if you do
it this way, I'll tell you how it looks like.
So just try to run this.
Um, and I'm going to say hi.
How are you doing?
Uh, Um.
Look at that.
See?
Hi.
How are you doing?
And then there is a response coming.
Hello.
I am an AI assistant created by Alibaba Cloud.
So I don't have personal feelings or experience, but I'm here to.
Really.
I'm here ready to help you with this information.
What are you looking for?
Pretty cool.
So now that we have written something.
But it's not very intuitive, right?
Like this.
This, this is not like a chat message.
Probably because it looks like a text summary.
So there is no difference between the person asking like the user is asking the question and the AI
agent is responding.
So it's not really differentiating between both of them.
So in order to beautify that in this, what is called as the Streamlit app, we have got this what is
called as uh, the
markdowns where you can actually create a markdown, something like this.
So I'm going to say start chat message that we have got.
And if it is a user message, then do a markdown for the prompt.
Same thing that I'm trying to print over here, and then I need to do the same thing for the response
as well.
So I'm going to say.
With st dot chat message of maybe assistant.
See we have got the option over here in the Streamlit.
And I'm going to say C dot markdown of the response that you are going to be printing to me.
And now if I try to run this code I'm going to say hi, how are you doing?
And look at that.
This time we're going to have our intuitive UI a bit right.
Like there is this user query.
And we also got a response.
So there is this bit of a shade in here.
And also there is this logo or maybe icon for the user and for the assistant which is amazing.
So we have built maybe an working bot question.
So I'm going to ask like how is the um, weather today in California?
Something like that.
Um, look at that.
Ah, it just overridden the existing question and then it is writing it over there as the answer.
But there is no like it's not really like a chat message that it is doing over here.
So we have to do that as well.
So these are the things that we have to improve in our code.
And also if I want to start all new, uh, query instead of just, uh, using the same session because
you know that the session is currently being embedded, the session ID is not something that you can
enter the session ID somewhere from this UI.
So we need to do that as well.
So those are the improvements that we have to do on this particular chatbot.
So we'll be doing that in our next lecture.